Um, but to get back to artificial intelligence.
So the idea is that there's two camps.
There's there's one camp that thinks that the exponential increase in
technology and that once artificial intelligence becomes sentient,
it could eventually improve upon its own design and literally become a
God a short amount of time.
And then there's the other school of thought that thinks that is so far outside
of the realm of what is possible today that even the
speculation of this eventually taking place is kind of ludicrous to imagine.
Right?
Exactly. And the balance needs to be truck,
because I think I'd like to talk about sort of the short term threats that are
there. And that's really important to think about, but the long term threats,
if they come to fruition will overpower everything. Right.
That's really important to think about.
But what happens is if you think too much about the, uh,
encroaching due of humanity,
there's some aspect to it that is paralyzing
where you almost, it turns you off from actually thinking about the,
these ideas. There's something so appealing.
It's like a black hole that pulls you in.
And if you notice folks like Sam Harrison,
so on a large amount of the time, you know,
they're talking about the negative stuff about something that's far away
not to say it's not wrong to talk about it,
but they spend very little time about the potential positive impacts in the near
term and also the negative impacts in the near term. So let's go over those yep.
Fairness. So the, we,
the more and more we put decisions about our lives
into the hands of artificial intelligence systems,
whether you get a loan or, uh,
in the autonomous vehicle context, or in terms of, um,
recommending jobs for you on LinkedIn or all these kind of the things,
the idea of fairness becomes of bias in,
in these machine learning systems becomes a really big threat because the
way current neuro, uh,
the way current artificial intelligence systems function is they train on data.
So there's no way to,
for them to somehow <affirmative> gain a greater intelligence than
our, than the data we provide them with. So we provide them with actual data.
And so they carry over. If we're not careful the biases in that data, the,
the discrimination that's inherent our current society as,
as represented by the data. So they'll, they'll just carry that forward.
Like how.
So?
Uh, so there's people working in this more. So to see, uh,
to show really the negative impacts in terms of getting
a loan or whether to say whether this particular human being should
be convicted or not of a crime or there's there's
ideas there that can carry, you know,
in our criminal system there's discrimination.
And if you use data from that criminal system to then assist deciders judges,
juries lawyers in making this incriminating in making a decision of what kind of
penalty a person gets, they're gonna carry that forward.
So you mean like racial, economic biases, racial, economic, yeah. Um,
geographical. And that's a sort of, I don't study that exact problem,
but it's, it's,
you're aware of it because of the tools we're using it own only.
So the two ways that I'd like to talk about neural networks with
okay. With Joe, <laugh> sure let's do it. Okay.
So the current approaches are, there's been a lot of,
uh, demonstrated improvements, exciting new improvements,
and our advancements of our artificial intelligence.
And those are for the most part have to do with neural networks.
Something that's been around since the 1940s has gone to two AI
winters,
where everyone was super hyped and then super bummed and super hyped again,
and bummed again. And now we're in this other hype cycle.
And what neural networks are,
is these collections of interconnected, simple compute units.
They're all similar. It's kind of like it's inspired by our own brain.
We have a bunch of little neurons interconnected.
And the idea is these interconnections are really dominant and random,
but if you feed it with some data,
they'll learn to connect just like they're doing our brain in a,
that interprets that data.
They form representations of that data and can make decisions.
But there's only two ways to train those neural networks that we have. Now.
One is we have to provide a large data set.
If you want that neural network to tell the difference between a cat and a dog,
you have to give it 10,000 images of a cat and 10,000 of a dog.
You need to give it those images.
And who tells you what a picture of a cat and a dog is it's humans.
So it has to be annotated.
So as teachers of these artificial intelligence systems,
we have to collect this data.
We have to invest significant amount of effort and
annotate that data. And then we teach neural networks, uh,
to make that prediction.
The what's not obvious there is how poor of a
method there is to achieve any kind of greater degree of intelligence.
You're just not able to get very far besides very specific narrow
tasks of cat versus dog, or, uh,
should I give this person a loan or not these kind of simple,
simple tasks I would argue autonomous vehicles are actually beyond the scope of
that kind of approach.
And then the other realm of where neural networks can be trained
is if you can simulate that world.
So if the world is simple enough or is conducive to
be formalized sufficiently to where you can simulate it.
So a game of chess is just it's it's there's rules, a game of go there's rules.
So you can, they had the big,
exciting thing about Google deep mind is that they were able to beat the world
champion by doing something called competitive self play, uh,
which is they have two systems play against each other.
They don't need the human, they play against each other, but that only works.
And that's a beautiful idea and super powerful and really interesting and
surprising, but that only works on things like games and simulation.
So now, if I wanted to, uh,
sorry to be going to analogies of like UFC, for example,
if I wanted to train a system to become the world
champion, uh, be, uh, what's his name? I'm that up? Right?
I could play the UFC game. I, I could create Sy.
I create two neural networks that play use competitive self play to play in that
virtual world. And they could become state of the art,
the best fighter ever in that game. But transferring that to the physical world,
we don't know how to do that.
We don't know how to teach systems to do stuff in the real world.
So some of the stuff that freaks you out often is Boston dynamics, robots. Ugh.
Yeah.
Every day I go to the Instagram page and I just go, what the are you guys doing?
So, uh, engineering, our demise.
Mark Reber, CEO is spoke with the class I taught.
He is, uh, he calls himself a bad boy of robotics.
So he's having a little fun with it. He should.
Definitely stop doing that. Don't call yourself a bad boy of anything.
That's true. How old is he? <laugh>.
<Laugh> okay. He's one of the greatest robotics of our generation. That's.
Great. That's wonderful. However, you can't call yourself.
Don't call yourself a bad boy, bro. Okay.
So you <laugh>, so you're not the bad boy of MMA. Definitely not.
<Laugh>.
Um.
But I'm not even the bad man. Bad man.
<laugh> definitely not a bad boy. Okay. It's so silly.
Yeah. The, those robots are actually functioning in the physical world.
That's what I'm talking about.
Mm-hmm <affirmative> and they are using something called oh,
was I think coined, I don't know, seventies or eighties,
the term good old fashioned AI,
meaning there is nothing like going on that you would
consider artificially intelligent,
which is usually connected to learning.
So these systems aren't learning, it's not like you drop the puppy into the,
into the world and it kind of stumbles around and figures stuff out and learns
is better and better and better and better. That's the scary part.
That's the imagination that, that,
that's what we imagine is we put something in this world at first it's like
harmless, it falls all over the place.
And all of a sudden it figures something out.
And like Elon Musk says like travels faster than whatever than you can only see
with proli. There's no learning component on it. There.
This is just purely there's hydraulics and electric motors.
And there is 20 to 30 degrees of freedom and it's
doing hard coded control algorithms to control the task of how do you move
efficiently through space mm-hmm <affirmative> so this is the task Bodis work on
a really, really hard problem is taking a robotic manipulation,
taking arm, grabbing a water bottle and lifting it super hard,
somewhat unsolved to this point and learning to do that.
We really don't know how to do that.
The right,
but this is what we're talking about essentially is the convergence of these
robotic systems with artificially intelligence systems. That's right.
And as artificially intelligence, intelligence systems evolve,
and then this convergence becomes complete.
You're going to have the ability to do things like the computer,
that beat humans that go that's right. You're gonna have creativity.
You you're going to have, uh,
a complex understanding of language and expression. And you're gonna have,
I mean, perhaps even engineered things like emotions like jealousy and anger,
I mean, it's, it's entirely possible that as you were saying,
we're gonna have systems that could potentially be biased the way human beings,
right.
Towards people of certain economic groups or certain geographic groups.
And you would use that data that they have to discriminate just like human
beings discriminate. That's right.
What if you have all that in an artificially intelligent robot that has
autonomy and that has the ability to move,
this is what people are totally concerned and with,
and terrified of is that all of these different systems that are currently in
semi crude states, they can't pick up a water bottle yet.
They can't really do much other than they can do back flips, but they, you know,
I mean, I'm sure you've seen more, the more recent Boston dynamic ones,
par core. Yeah. I saw that one the other day. It's get,
they're getting better and better and better. And it's,
it's increasing every year, every year there's they have new abilities.